three metrics that are under discussed
on social media with Venture capitalists
really with f certainly especially with
Founders I've actually got I'm in the
barrier this weekend and have four board
meetings or investor meetings this week
and everyone talks about AR and and
growth and to some extent NPS and others
but we are under discussing some metrics
that in 2024 especially matter for sass
Executives and founder so I just wanted
to talk about three things that I think
are important and under discussed here
and the first one that I put this
together on saster in the last week or
two you can find it on what I think the
most important metric in SAS is today
this is not discussed enough and I
encourage all of you especially those of
you who maybe have seen growth slow over
the last year to to be laser focused on
this I see very few Founders put net new
customer count as their top kpi everyone
talks about Revenue growth everyone
talks about Revenue growth and look your
first year your first two years you
don't you don't have any customers to
renew at first you're adding new logos
at on a percentage basis at high rates
ites there's no real goal for net new
customer growth but what we are seeing
today is that anyone with any scale four
to even from four to five million n to
four to five billion and obviously
that's a wide range we I seeing folks
whose new customer growth is is anemic
and if you look at most of the public
SAS companies you will have seen that in
many cases nrr has come down but if nrr
was really high at a snowflake or a
cloud flare or a HubSpot it's come down
but it hasn't plummeted to zero so the
top leaders in SASS and Cloud still have
tripled digigit nrr they still have
tripled digigit nrr and so even if you
bring in no new customers you'll still
grow at the bottom of this table is the
worst Defenders and again these are
great companies so I don't mean to pick
on anybody they're all these are all top
this the they're all NBA it's like
picking on somebody because they're not
LeBron James and realistically but this
is the world we playing right or all in
the NBA of SAS so probably the biggest
offender at the bottom is fastly and
fastly is pretty is a pretty Enterprise
CDN at 500 million in Revenue it still
gets more money out of its customers as
they route more content through their
network but they're only growing
customers
1% 1% so they can look it's not doesn't
look all bad if you Breeze through the
numbers Revenue growth up 18% that's not
great but it's okay at 500 million but
only 1% P Duty similarly has done a big
tilt up Market to the Enterprise if
folks have been around for a while you
remember when Pedro Duty was like a grab
and grab and go app for Tech folks and
smbs now it's very Enterprise and that's
worked because they're growing their nrr
is high enough that they are growing
still growing 60% only 1% customer count
and I just see too many Founders when
times are more challenging even when
growth is just okay but not great hiding
from this they're hiding from this oh we
grew 48% this last year that's great but
if you're new customers didn't grow at
least half of that if it's not at least
half of your Topline Revenue growth your
future is not secure your future is not
secure you're hiding in nrr so you have
to tweak that ratio based on how
Enterprise or S&B you are but roughly
speaking if your new customer growth is
not growing half of your of your Topline
your Revenue growth you are shrinking in
relevance you are shrinking in market
share and your future is at risk and I
would much rather and we've really made
this mistake even worse the last 18 24
months where we try and ring every
dollar out of the customer base we try
and force people to renew early we Jam
price increases up all that stuff is
financial engineering and it might work
for a year but jamming your customers to
pay more that doesn't increase your net
new customer account does it it doesn't
increase the number of new customers if
you have a great team and we can talk
about this in the AMA after but if you
have a great team they will over time
figure out how to drive up your deal
size how to drive up your ACV how to
drive up all of these pieces as long as
you're growing your customer count your
future is assured your future is assured
and that's why of this list um really I
would say the most impressive are the
top three Sprout social which a lot of
folks don't talk about in the social
media space Cloud flare which is I think
as the highest multiple Revenue multiple
of any public sasor Cloud company in
HubSpot for those of you who think
you've exhausted your market for those
of you who think you running out of
customers to sell to HubSpot has 205,000
customers and it's still growing its new
customer count 23% it's still going to
add 50,000 customers a year so this is
your job this is your job and I know
especially if you have investors and
team members yes I I of course Revenue
growth at the end of the day is what
matters for a while in SAS and then as
we'll talk about next Revenue growth and
profitability ultimately matter
but your future is your C is is growing
your customer count so I would challenge
you in your team meetings and your
investor meetings whatever I would make
this your number your first slide this I
think is the core health of your company
now if if you're under some pressure for
renewals or under some pressure for
pricing so be it but if customers aren't
growing and again that to me that's the
canary in the coal mine especially if
your NR is decent and I just I see way
too much discussion about other metrics
and not enough about if we're growing
our customer base the next discussed
metric I I wanted to just touch on I've
really only got three and then we'll
open up
questions and this chart's a little
complicated you don't have to read it
but I'll explain it to you and I'll show
you some examples next is growth versus
efficiency and the single biggest
mistake error confusion that I hear from
Founders today Founders in general
Founders that are Venture back Founders
that are bootstrap angels that have
raised a little bit of money wherever
you are is that this is the era of
profitability it's not it is not
profitability is not your key to
success what has changed is efficiency
you have to be more efficient you can't
go public not growing too many startups
are not growing or growing 10% 15% 20%
but hoay we're Break Even but it
actually turns out to be pretty
efficient if you don't close any
customers you don't have to pay the
sales team that much your marketing
costs go down it's actually fairly easy
to be efficient if you have a few
million or more in revenue and you don't
grow it all you often actually can be
cash flow positive it's really not that
hard just firey the whole sales and
marketing team or don't do any of it
that's not what it's all about what has
changed and this is what confuses social
media advice it's all terrible what has
changed is now you have to do both you
have to both grow and you will
ultimately have to be profitable at
scale but profitability is not enough
and I'm going to show you an example
next that will be more helpful on this
slide but both besser and meritech you
can I'll put them up on saster in a week
or two but they both did their own over
overly complicated analysis of this this
is bester but they both come down to the
same conclusion looking at all the
public sass companies and Cloud
companies in 2021 all that mattered was
growth as we know all that mattered was
growth in 2021 no one forget about
startups and unicorns no one actually
cared if public SAS companies were even
profitable literally no one cared in
2021 in
2024 profitability matters but growth is
twice as important it's twice as
important so let that be your Guiding
Light your guiding principle is this
ratio of growth to profit you can
calculate it however you want you don't
have this rule of X that best did I love
it but it's like super complicated it's
a little bit too nerdy unless you're
like preo but growth is twice as
important as profitability so track both
but profitability is not the goal it is
an end State ultimately that you need to
get to the goal is to grow almost as
fast as we did in 2021 but without
burning all the cash it's hard but
that's the real goal we don't get a pass
on growth because you're profitable you
don't get a pass on growth because your
cash flow Break Even you don't it
doesn't get you anywhere so let me show
you oh sorry this slide this is an
interesting example I pulled up there's
a series on saster called five
interesting learnings it's publishes
every Wednesday if you don't read it you
you should I I think it's pretty good I
write it though so I guess I'm biased
but we look we do we look at all the
complicated metrics from a leading
public company and we break it down to
just five fiveish things that actually
matter for Founders and I pulled up
three of the latest ones HubSpot Viva
and Dropbox and you know what's
interesting Viva you might not have
heard of Viva is the is the probably the
largest vertical SAS company it is CRM
and a little bit more but CRM for for
Life Sciences it is for life science
fact Diva was founded by the VP of
engineering CTO at Salesforce who wanted
to build the Salesforce for Pharma and
it ended up becoming this huge platform
serum platform for Life Sciences
vertical ass anyhow convergent evolution
HubSpot for smbs Viva everyone's a
million to10 million contract and drop
boxes at the edge of consumer but
they're all 2.5 billion in AR today
they're all doing 2.5 billion in Revenue
Vue but what they're worth and how
they're doing it is very different let's
look at HubSpot and Viva first it's
super interesting they're actually both
worth 33 billion this is both in the top
10% these are top desile these are the
LeBron James and Steph curries of SAS
HubSpot and Viva um sp's growing twice
as fast at 24% with 177% profit margin
177% of each dollar goes into profit
non-gap profit but profit and so that
combination and add them together 24 and
17 is 40 won this so-called rule of 40
they're worth 33 billion that's 13x
after you take out the cash pretty darn
good now Viva this is the line where if
you fall below this line not as a
startup but as a public company you
become interesting but VI is just above
it their growth is is barely in the
growth stage it's in the double digits
it's 12% at to half billion although
they are guiding to 15% next year so
importantly they're telling Wall Street
hey we're going to accelerate rather
than
decelerate almost 40% margins almost 40
cents of every dollar comes in
is goes to the bottom line so Viva is
actually sitting on4 billion doll of
cash Viva only raised $8 million in
capital before it's IPO it hasn't spent
anything it's built up4 billion dollar
in cash it's so efficient and add 12 and
39 you get to 51 so that's wildly
efficient and it trades at the same as
HubSpot a little a tiny bit lower when
you back out the cash so both of them
profitable or depending on your both of
them have high margins but viva's
margins are insane which can make up for
good but not great growth HubSpot is
very good growth at 2.5 billion and it
still has to be profitable Dropbox 2.5
billion growing 6% that's not a Growth
Company anymore is it it's Fallen to the
single digit has 33% margins it
generates almost a billion of cash but
Wall Street doesn't care back out all of
its cash it's only trading at 2x ARR a
sixth a sixth the valuation of HubSpot
in Viva so Dropbox is the example of hey
a tiny bit of growth in tons of cash is
not good enough no matter what you read
on Twitter no matter what everyone says
like the Mantra is getting profitable
it's not the reason people are all
especially VCS are saying get profitable
is because they're worried their
portfolio companies are going to run out
of money there's no more money to go
into the engine so they're telling them
to get profitable but it's necessary but
not sufficient necessary but not
sufficient so super interesting set of
case studies take some more time
studying this if this doesn't make
intuitive sense to you but this is the
world we're living in today uh you got
to grow and you got to be profit
and I think this is under the
combination is under discussed and that
growth is twice as important as
profitability as we can see when we
compare Viva and Dropbox right it's just
Viva is 33 billion and Dropbox is eight
billion back out its cash only 2x AR no
one wants to be worth 2x AR folks
especially after all that work and
getting over two billion
Revenue so related to that one last
slide and this one frankly is slightly
discouraging but I'm going to show it
anyway because we're among friends
this is a Deb this is much debated among
VCS today so I'm going to take out the
debate and just summarize the facts what
does it take to go public today what
does it take to go public because at
some point if your Founders look most of
us aren't going to go IPO most of us but
it's good to know but at least it's good
to know where to skate the puck to right
so that if if you're a little bit on
that path someone might buy you for 10
million 50 million 100 million 500
million a billion what does it look like
what do you ultimately have to even if
you're not there today what do you have
to build to and you know when I started
in SAS the bar was 100 million in
Revenue 100 million-ish growing maybe
50% that's where HubSpot and box looked
like as they ipoed a decade ago as they
came to the first couple s annuals the
bar and everything's gone up for a
variety of reasons it's not 100 million
or 150 million and no one knows what the
bar is today to IPO per se but what we
can look at is there have only been two
SAS IPOs since the crash of December of
there's only been two fact there's only
been 1 Point 1.5 because rubric is in
process of going IPO they'll IPO shortly
but they actually haven't gone out at
least as as of today what does it look
like this is a it's a big bar so clavio
ipoed late last year if you don't know
clavo we have a great interview with the
CEO on saster look at it's one of my
favorites clavio owns marketing for
e-commerce it owns marketing for
e-commerce if you're not in e-commerce
you've never heard of clavio you use
HubSpot or other
sorry can we mute that
guy we got it okay good sorry clayo owns
marketing about almost 70% of everyone
on Shopify uses clavio it's insane it's
an insane it's one of the highest
partner attaches there is clayo to
Shopify and a beloved app a Bel
literally I haven't seen a product that
folks love more for marketing automation
ipoed at the end of last year after that
drought like the two-year drought 600
million in a are growing
57% 57% right and profitable 15% 600
million it's only worth six billion it's
only worth 10 times at all that works
only weth 10 times at rubrics the next
one rubric there is really confusing you
can read that we we put it up last week
on SAS r five IND learn it's really
confusing because they went from a from
sort of a hardware on Prem to SAS model
and frankly I think they they flatter
their metrics a little bit by confusing
them but put that aside for purposes of
today let's simplify it Rubik's going
public at about 780 million in Revenue
growing maybe 47% again it might be a
little less because of the metrics are
confusing but let's call it with the
most optimistic version 47% and we don't
know what they're going to trade at but
it looks like about six billion to seven
billion so this is the
bar this is the bar
and a lot and I don't think this is bad
but I think most startups today are
living in a bubble in a glass house and
I think I'm not criticizing I actually
think it's a good thing it is a good
thing
but way too many startups are getting
Venture funded way too much is happening
for companies that are good companies
but have no hope of these are high bars
growing more than 50% not where you are
today but it's 600 million and more it
probably if you back into what is the
equivalent of growing 57% at 600 million
for most of you that might be tripling
this year quadrupling Quin tipling
that's probably what it should take to
raise Venture Capital go through this
cycle do all this stuff um and that's
just to trade at 10 times Revenue so if
you've raised any Capital at 10 times
revenue or more you're living in a
bubble you're living in the glass house
and do it like hide from it hide from
The Real World like it's like living at
home with Mom and Dad for a while if
your room's nice stay as long as you
can don't be in a rush you get a mom's
and dad's house if the room is nice and
they have a car for you and they pay for
your Apple pay maybe stay home until
you're 22 25 26 I don't know maybe
this's a bad analogy but I don't mean to
but there is an argument to to to stay
in a bubble where everything's great
because the real world is tough now now
maybe we'll see there there's maritech
had a good analysis saying they think
there'll be plenty of IPOs at 200
million 300 million but even that's a
lot right even that's a lot but if you
want the tough my tough concern my tough
worry today of under discussed is what
is this bar and how do we get to it and
I I know quite a few companies that are
in the 150 to 200 million AR range okay
because I got to know the founders or
even invested in them all different
reasons over over the last decade many
are now at 150 200 million or so 250
million in that range range but the
growth isn't at this level the growth
isn't at this level now you can blame
macro and this and that but macro isn't
stopping rubric macro isn't stopping
clavio there's good macros too out there
they're not all bad macros and I don't
mean to be discouraging but as Founders
even if you don't maybe you don't show
the slide to your
teams maybe you just keep this quietly
among yourselves and only talk about it
a quarter but understand that as hard as
it is to do what you're doing
today you may actually have to do even
better the IP window is open but the bar
is Pretty Tough today guys and so that
those are just a tough fact to be aware
of when you're trying to understand it
so anyhow to summarize track your net
new customers after churn track this as
your to me the Northstar metric a team
will fix everything you'll figure out
more products for them you'll figure out
how to drive your deal size up you'll
figure out how to to do all these things
if you have happy customers in a good
team but if you're not growing your new
customer account it's trouble so
especially invest in your long tail
don't give up on your smaller customers
don't give up on your Champions because
they can grow big two profitability
isn't everything growth still matters
twice as much you just have to do both
it's harder and three just quietly be
aware of the bar to IPO so how all that
Cascades back to your stage at least
you're at least your s aware out of it